Personal leadership
    1. setting goals!
        S.M.A.R.T model (Specific, Measurable, Achieveable, Relevent, Time Bound)
            S.M.A.R.T is a good model no use when setting goals for yourself by making goals more achieveable and by having some parameter's to follow to keep the goals realistic


What is a good goal? 
        a good goal is something that can be achived within a certain timeframe and isn't unrealstic within the set timeframe


    Who is responsable for achieving your goal?
        there will always only be one person who will be responsable for your goals and that will be yourself 


    Resistance and revaluation
        it is natural to meet resistance when working towards a goal, it can come from many sources but its important to keep going!


    Resolve and resistance
        what is resistance?
            Resistance can come from a lot of different places but the 2 main sources here will be yourself and the people around you 


        Revaluation
            sometimes revaluating your goals can be something you will have to do


    What comes around goes around
        its a basic principle about life, it means that whatever you do will come back at you again, so treat people how you wanna be treated 

    Master your own mind
        Its important to master your own mind meaning that you need to understand yourself and be able to handle your own thoughts, and learn how to process what you are experiancing and work with it!

    Take responsability
        its only you who are responsable for reaching your goal and thats why you also are the one that should keep yourself at check about being actively working to get to that goal 


    Kanban
        kanban is a method of planing your day and your tasks to make it easier by planing your tasks and spacing them out on the day making it so you are more capable of getting them all done!        

Ethic's 
    What does it mean to be a good person?

    Philosophy's 
        Duty Ethics
            Duty ethics tells you what you can do and what you can't do with no excptions, that some things are bad and some things are good, a example is lying, its a bad thing to lie to someone so you could never lie no matter what the situation is

        Utilitarian Ethics 
            Utilitarian Ethics talk about how you use other people and that its a bad thing to do, you aren't supposed to use people to get soemthing

        Humanism
            Humanism says that we as humans are responsable form setting the limits and deciding whats within reason when it somes to being a ethical human being


    My own happiness 
        Whos responsable for my happiness? 
            It is always you yourself who is responsable for your own happiness, no matter what or who's around you it is still you who has the choice and can decide if you wann stay or move on to something different

        Whos responsable for my life?
            Just like your happiness you are also the one responsable for your life, you are the only one who knows how you are feeling and how your life is


Courage
    Understanding Fear 
            Fear comes from a part of the brain called the Amygdala often refered to as the lizard brain

            Fear is something primal in our brain that we can't avoid so learning to handle it and work with it is important!


Commitment
    Accept the realities of life!
        Theres some things you just can't change no matter how much you want to so dont bother yourself with them when you have no control over it!

        focus on the positive!
            its important to focus on the positive and remember that theres also good things when you meet resistance in what you are doing!

        selfreflection and personal growth
            being able to reflect on the things you are doing and use them to grow as a person is extreamly important and is a skill that most people spend most of their lives trying to learn so always strive to better yourself and remember that selfreflection isn't meant to drag yourself down!

        use your support system and the people around you!
            You are never alone so always remember that when something seems to be imposiable theres always people around you who are willing to help you and reach out and lend a hand when you might be in need


Collaberation
    

Curiosity
    what is curiosity?
        a interest that we as humans can make in out own head that can drive us to achieve amazing things we never thought we would be able to!

    How can you use it?
        one of the ways you can use curiosity to better yourself is by making your daily tasks more interesting by bringing your curiosity into it and expand how you might think about a subject

    Growing older
        as we grow older we most often take away some of the exitement we used to get from doing some tasks making it seem more boring than it used to be, 
        one of the ways we can stop that from happening is by letting us get carried away with mondain tasks and letting us freely explore it in the hopes of making it more interesting again
    
    The 4 I's
        1. Identitet
            Nysgerrighed som en del af ens identitet handler om at anerkende og værdsætte spørgsmålstegn og udforskning som en
            kerneværdi. Det indebærer at se sig selv som en person, der konstant søger at lære, vokse og forstå verden bedre. Når
            nysgerrighed bliver indlejret i ens identitet, bliver lysten til at stille spørgsmål og søge nye oplevelser en naturlig del af, hvem
            man er. Dette kan opmuntres gennem selvrefleksion, åbenhed over for nye erfaringer, og en vedvarende vilje til at udforske
            ukendte områder 
        2. Incitameter
             Incitamenter spiller en kritisk rolle i at fremme nysgerrig adfærd. Dette kan omfatte både materielle og immaterielle
             belønninger for nysgerrig udforskning og innovation. Ved at anerkende og belønne nysgerrighed opmuntrer organisationer
             og samfund individer til at gå ud over det forventede, stille dybere spørgsmål og søge kreative løsninger. Effektive
             incitamenter kan variere fra anerkendelse og ros til professionelle udviklingsmuligheder og monetære belønninger.
        3. Iteration
            Iteration henviser til processen med kontinuerlig prøve, fejl og forbedring. Denne tilgang understreger, at læring og
            innovation ofte er resultatet af gentagne forsøg og justeringer. Ved at omfavne fejl som en integreret del af
            læringsprocessen, skaber man et miljø, hvor nysgerrighed trives. En kultur, der tillader fejl og understøtter iteration,
            fremmer en vilje til at tage risici, udforske nye ideer og kontinuerligt søge efter forbedringer.
        4. Intersektioner
            Intersektioner refererer til skæringspunkter mellem forskellige discipliner, perspektiver og ideer. Ved at skabe rum, hvor
            disse intersektioner kan finde sted, åbnes døre for nysgerrighed og innovation. Disse skæringspunkter tillader en rig
            udveksling af ideer og fremmer et miljø, hvor spørgsmål og udforskning på tværs af traditionelle grænser er velkomne.
            Intersektioner kan være fysiske rum, som tværfaglige teams eller innovationshubs, eller mere abstrakte, som kulturelle og
            intellektuelle mødesteder.

Invoation / S.P.R.I.N.T

    Day 1.
        Understand & Focus
        
        On the first day you need to understand the problem you are facing and get to know it and focus in on what you are gonna solve, find the best possible ways to slove the problem in the best case senario


    Day 2. 
        Inspireation and Ideas

        On day 2 you need to get inspireation from whats already out there and use it to build up your own idea of how this can be solved and the best way to make it work

    Day 3.
        Decide & Plan


        On day 3 you need to decide what the solution will be! togeher with your group you are gonna make all your ideas and have a vote for what would work for the project

    Day 4. 
        Prototype

        On day 4 you start building up a prototype of the solution, this will be a barebones version of how the real end propduct will look and how it should work

    Day 5.
        Testing & Learning 

        On day 5 you need test your prototype on the target group and gather information on how it would work and what might need to be imporved before making the final product

